So what's the answer?
So far, [LAUGH] I've just slammed
everything, I'm like, and
now it's time to go home, good luck, yeah.
[LAUGH] So let me provide you
with what I think the answer is,
and I think it might surprise you
a little bit, cuz it's not very popular.
Actually, I think email is
gonna be our answer, right?
Don't worry, we're not talking about
spamming email or anything like that.
It's not as bad as it sounds,
[LAUGH] right?
But email has got a lot going for
it that all of the others don't.
Let me explain why.
For a start,
we work business to business, all right?
So every single person that is a potential
client for you lives in email, okay?
Yeah, but we've moved to Slack now, but
they're still checking email, right?
Everybody checks email.
So while there was a time, right,
I remember the halcyon days,
I'm really sounding old now, where
people subscribed to RSS feeds, right?
And they would get notified
every time I released a blog,
and they would immediately
trot along to the blog and
read it,
because they'd received a notification.
Are we honestly saying that
everybody does that anymore,
that anybody follows a blog anymore?
No, of course not.
The only time you end up on a blog
is where you google something and
it happens to take you to the blog, right?
And then there's no connection,
there's no relationship there.
Social media, you post something on social
media and it's gone in a blink of an eye,
it shoots off the top with all
the other noise that's going on.
Email, every email that somebody
receives they might not read it.
But they will be reminded you exist,
they will see it.
So yeah, you will be seen.
Every single message you
sent out will be seen.
It might not be read in detail, but
you will at least be remembered.
They're not gonna forget you in the same
way as traditional content marketing.
And in lots of situations,
you will be read.
So I've got a subscriber mailing
list of 8,500 currently,
that's where my mailing list is standing.
And I get an open rate of 38%.
And that means, every two weeks,
I send an email out every two weeks,
3,230 people, potential clients these are,
are reading about my expertise.
That's pretty good, right?
That's more than enough to sustain me.
So, actually, email might not be
very trendy, but it is very good,
and there are other good
reasons about email.
I own my email list, right?
That's mine, okay?
It's not some social media platform
where they can change the algorithm and
wipe me off the face of the Earth
in a blink of an eye, I own that.
So there's lots of reasons why
email has got lot of potential.
So where does that leave us?
Well, it leaves us with needing
to get people on a mailing list,
so that we can build
a relationship with them.
And I'm not talking about a mailing
list where we sell at them.
As you'll see as we go through this,
this is very soft, this is very gentle.
It's not pushy in any way at all,
but we need to take some
of the lessons of marketing and
sales techniques and
use those in a much gentler way for
our purposes.
So what we basically got to do,
is get people to subscribe by moving them
through something, they call it
marketing a sales funnel, right?
So what is a sales funnel, okay?
Well, a sales funnel is basically
a journey that a prospective client
goes through from the moment
they first hear that you
exist to the moment that they
sign up to your services, right?
So in many ways, if you happen to
have any experience in design,
I'm sure you've come across
the term customer journey mapping.
A sales funnel is very similar
to a customer journey mapping.
It's just the emphasis is more
around moving the customer
along that journey to
the point where they hire you.
So what does that typically look like?
Well, let's just kind of give you
a very simplistic sales funnel,
because we don't need
anything complicated,
we're not a multinational corporation
selling multiple products.
Our needs are fairly basic.
First thing we wanna do is
attract their attention, right?
Hey, here I am,
notice me in all of the noise.
Then once we've got that attention,
then we wanna build a connection, right?
We wanna be more than just
another faceless web designer or
faceless data scientist or
developer or whatever you are.
We wanna be someone that
there is a connection with.
And then we wanna keep people engaged,
right?
Keep them talking, so
keep them hearing from us regularly.
And then actually, we wanna encourage
them to start talking to us.
Even if they've not really
got anything to hire us for,
the more contact we have with them, the
more of a relationship we build with them,
the more that they will want
to eventually work with us.
And then finally, we wanna close the sale.
And the reason a sales funnel is so
important is because the chances of
you reaching out to somebody or
them hearing about you at the exact moment
they're ready to hire you is extremely
low, right, if you think about it.
So what we need to do is maintain
that contact then until they
are ready to holla at you, and
that's what sales funnel is for.
Now, I'll be honest with you,
that's not a kinda quick fix, right?
If you right now are in the middle
of a crisis where your work is dried
up as a freelancer, and you've got not
enough work coming through the door,
this ain't gonna solve that overnight,
I'm afraid, okay?
What I'm talking about
building here is a long-term
sustainable kind of stream of
potential work coming through
the door that you can rely on and
know that will be there.
So I'm now at the point, for example,
where maybe if I get slow month,
I send an email out, and
that will generate work.
If I wanna do a different type of work,
I send an email out and
it'll generate that type of work.
That's where I wanna get you to, but
that's not gonna happen instantly.
So why do you want this sales funnel,
how does it help?
Well, first of all,
you could target your sales funnel, right?
So you can pick a group of clients that
you would really like to work with and
you can focus in on those.
I wanna work on those with those people,
so let's build a sales funnel for
them, right?
So that's one thing.
Second is the consistent thing
I just talked about, right?
Once you've got sales funnel up and
running for a while, it will provide
you with a relatively consistent and
reliable source of new clients, right?
There won't be that kind of emotional
trauma when the phone stops ringing and
it goes dry for a particular month,
or, I don't know,
a global pandemic happens, right?
For me, the global pandemic,
a lot of the agencies and
freelancers that I worked
with were devastated by that.
For me, I had about two months
that were slower than normal.
So having a sales funnel
really kinda helps with that.
And then finally, it's controllable.
By tweaking your sales funnel and
the messaging that you use,
you can control the amount of clients that
you win, the type of clients that you win.
You've got real control over what you do.